Update release note with OpenAPI Tool changes (#2058)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-release: release-notes/swan-lake-release-notes/swan-lake-2202.2.0-release-note.md

### Breaking changes

### Developer tools updates

#### New features

##### OpenAPI Tool
Added support for allowing resource method capability for the client generation command. 
Introduced the `--client-methods <resource|remote>` option to select the client method type,  which can be `resource` or `remote`.
  - `$ bal openapi -i <OpenAPI contract> --client-methods resource`
  - `$ bal openapi -i <OpenAPI contract> --mode client --client-methods resource`

#### Improvements

##### OpenAPI Tool

> Added support to validate the values that have been assigned to the generated Ballerina types concerning the given OpenAPI schema validation using the API provided by the Ballerina `constraint` package. This validation is available for `int`, `float`, `number`, `string`, and `array`.

Reviewer: in which openAPI components do we support this? (only in validator or, validator + openAPI to bal generation?)

Author: Yeah currently support openapi to ballerina code generation, will mention it here 🙂

Author: Address via this commit https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-release/pull/2058/commits/78f075f7ab1e246060a58b0bde4bf1bb723ac0f3

### Breaking changes

> ### Developer Tools Updates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Developer tools updates
```

> #### New Features

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### New features
```

##### OpenAPI Tool

> - Added support for allowing resource method capability for client generation command. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Added support for allowing resource method capability for the client generation command. 
```

> - Added support for allowing resource method capability for the client generation command. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Added support for allowing resource method capability for the client generation command. 
```
If it is only one point, we don't need to add bullets to it.

>   Introduced `--client-methods <resource|remote>` option to select client method type,  which can be `resource` or `remote`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Introduced the `--client-methods <resource|remote>` option to select the client method type,  which can be `resource` or `remote`.
```

>   Introduced `--client-methods <resource|remote>` option to select the client method type,  which can be `resource` or `remote`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Introduced the `--client-methods <resource|remote>` option to select the client method type,  which can be `resource` or `remote`.
```
If this is the second point, we need to add bullets for both this and the above.

  - `$ bal openapi -i <OpenAPI contract> --client-methods resource`
  - `$ bal openapi -i <OpenAPI contract> --mode client --client-methods resource`

#### Improvements

##### OpenAPI Tool

> - Added support to validate the values that have been assigned to generated Ballerina types concerning the given OpenAPI schema

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Added support to validate the values that have been assigned to the generated Ballerina types concerning the given OpenAPI schema
```

>   validation using API provided by the Ballerina constraint package. This validation available for `int`, `float`, `number`, `string` and `array`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  validation using the API provided by the Ballerina constraint package. This validation is available for `int`, `float`, `number`, `string`, and `array`.
```

>   validation using the API provided by the Ballerina constraint package. This validation is available for `int`, `float`, `number`, `string`, and `array`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  validation using the API provided by the Ballerina `constraint` package. This validation is available for `int`, `float`, `number`, `string`, and `array`.
```
Why do we have a line break here?

Author: I think it is a mistake, hadn't an intention to add a line break. will remove it

>   The `@constraint:Int`, `@constraint:Float` and `@constraint:Number` annotations will have the `minValue`, `maxValue`, `minValueExclusive` and `maxValueExclusive` constraints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The `@constraint:Int`, `@constraint:Float`, and `@constraint:Number` annotations will have the `minValue`, `maxValue`, `minValueExclusive`, and `maxValueExclusive` constraints.
```

>   The `@constraint:Int`, `@constraint:Float` and `@constraint:Number` annotations will have the `minValue`, `maxValue`, `minValueExclusive`, and `maxValueExclusive` constraints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The `@constraint:Int`, `@constraint:Float`, and `@constraint:Number` annotations will have the `minValue`, `maxValue`, `minValueExclusive`, and `maxValueExclusive` constraints.
```

>   The `@constraint:String` and `@constraint:Array` annotation will have the `minLength` and `maxLength` constraints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The `@constraint:String` and `@constraint:Array` annotations will have the `minLength` and `maxLength` constraints.
```

### Breaking changes

### Developer tools updates

#### New features

##### OpenAPI Tool

> - Added support for generating client resource methods in client generation command. The preferred client method type can be chosen using `--client-methods=<remote(default)|resource>` option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Added support for generating client resource methods in client generation command. The preferred client method type can be chosen using `--client-methods=<remote(default)|resource>` option.
```
Don't need the bullet if it is a single point.

> - Added support for generating client resource methods in client generation command. The preferred client method type can be chosen using `--client-methods=<remote(default)|resource>` option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Added support for generating client resource methods in the client generation command. The preferred client method type can be chosen using the `--client-methods=<remote(default)|resource>` option.
```

  - `$ bal openapi -i <OpenAPI contract> --client-methods=resource`
  - `$ bal openapi -i <OpenAPI contract> --mode client --client-methods=resource`

#### Improvements

##### OpenAPI Tool
###### OpenAPI to Ballerina Schema Generation

> Added support to validate the values in generated Ballerina data types concerning the given OpenAPI schema data types' validation rules. For the validation use an API provided by the Ballerina `constraint` package.

Reviewer: Added support for OpenAPI schema constraint properties in client/service generation. With this improvement, the OpenAPI constraints will be applied as `ballerina/constraint` standard library package annotations when generating Ballerina clients and services from the OpenAPI definition.

Author: Shall I use `constraint keywords` since the OpenAPI schema represent these as keywords for specific schema type?

> The validation is available for 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following OpenAPI properties are currently supported in the Ballerina OpenAPI generation tool.
```

> - keywords `minimum`, `maximum`, `exclusiveMinimum`, and `exclusiveMaximum` in OpenAPI schema data types `integer`and `number`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- the `minimum`, `maximum`, `exclusiveMinimum`, and `exclusiveMaximum` keywords in the `integer` and `number` OpenAPI schema data types
```

> - keywords `minLength` and `maxLength` in OpenAPI `string` schema daya type

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- the `minLength` and `maxLength` keywords in the `string` OpenAPI schema daya type
```

> - keywords `minItems` and `maxItems` in OpenAPI `array` schema data type

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- the `minItems` and `maxItems` OpenAPI  in the `array` OpenAPI schema data type
```

> - the `minimum`, `maximum`, `exclusiveMinimum`, and `exclusiveMaximum` keywords in the `integer` and `number` OpenAPI schema data types
> - the `minLength` and `maxLength` keywords in the `string` OpenAPI schema daya type
> - the `minItems` and `maxItems` OpenAPI  in the `array` OpenAPI schema data type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `minimum`, `maximum`, `exclusiveMinimum`, and `exclusiveMaximum` for `integer` and `number` types
- `minLength` and `maxLength` for `string` type
- `minItems` and `maxItems` for `array` type
```

To view bug fixes, see the GitHub milestone for 2201.2.0 (Swan Lake) of the repositories below.

- [Language Server](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues?q=is%3Aissue+milestone%3A%22Ballerina+2201.2.0%22+is%3Aclosed+label%3ATeam%2FLanguageServer)
- [update tool](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-update-tool/issues?q=is%3Aissue+milestone%3A%22Ballerina+2201.2.0%22+is%3Aclosed+label%3AType%2FBug)

> - [OpenAPI](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/openapi-tools/issues?q=is%3Aissue+milestone%3A%22Swan+Lake+2201.2.0%22+is%3Aclosed)

Reviewer: Shouldn't we keep the `type/bug` filter in here?

Reviewer: yeah we better remove if we don't have any bug fixes for the 2201.2.0

##### OpenAPI Tool

> ###### OpenAPI to Ballerina Schema Generation

Reviewer: IMO we don't need to have this `OpenAPI to Ballerina Schema Generation` subheading. we can imply that in the improvement description itself.

Author: +1 , will change and remove
